<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="firmware_update">

<title>How To Update Device Firmware?</title>
<shortdesc>This topic provides step-by-step instructions for safely updating the firmware of your IoT device, including tips to avoid interruptions and a reference to troubleshooting resources.</shortdesc>

<taskbody>

<prereq>
<note type="warning">
Ensure that your device remains powered on and connected to a stable network during the entire update process. Interruptions may result in device malfunction or failed installation.
</note>

<p><b>STEPS</b></p>
</prereq>

<steps>

<step>
<cmd>Open the manufacturer’s app or access the device’s web interface.</cmd>
</step>

<step>
<cmd>Navigate to the “Settings” or “Device Info” section to check the current firmware version.</cmd>
</step>

<step>
<cmd>If an update is available, tap “Update Firmware” or follow the link to the manufacturer’s website.</cmd>
</step>

<step>
<cmd>Download the latest firmware file through the app or from the official support page.</cmd>
</step>

<step>
<cmd>Start the update process and follow the on-screen instructions.</cmd>
</step>

<step>
<cmd>Do not turn off the device or close the app during the update.</cmd>
</step>

<step>
<cmd>Once the update completes, verify the firmware version again to confirm success.</cmd>
</step>
</steps>

<postreq>
<p>If the update fails or causes issues, refer to <xref href="troubleshoot_firmware_issues.dita">Troubleshoot Firmware Issues.</xref></p>
</postreq>

</taskbody>
</task>