<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE troubleshooting PUBLIC "-//Nena//DTD Troubleshooting Topic//EN" "../dtd/troubleshootingDomain.dtd">
<troubleshooting id="connectivity_issues">

<title>Troubleshoot Connectivity Issues</title>
<shortdesc>This topic addresses common connectivity problems that prevent IoT devices from successfully connecting to a Wi-Fi network. It outlines possible causes and provides step-by-step remedies.</shortdesc>

<problem>
<title>Problem:</title>

<p>The device fails to connect to the configured Wi-Fi network, preventing it from completing setup or syncing with the cloud.</p>
</problem>

<cause>
<title>Possible Causes:</title>

<ul>
<li><b>Weak Wi-Fi Signal:</b> The device may be too far from the router, resulting in unstable or dropped connections.</li>
<li><b>ncorrect Network Credentials:</b> An incorrect SSID or password can prevent authentication.</li>
<li><b>Dual-Band Conflicts:</b> Some IoT devices only support 2.4GHz networks and may fail when attempting to connect to a 5GHz band.</li>
</ul>
</cause>

<remedy>
<title>Possible Solutions:</title>

<ol>

<li><b>Reboot Router and Device</b>
<ul>
<li>Power off the Wi-Fi router.</li>
<li>Wait 10–15 seconds and power it back on.</li>
<li>Restart the IoT device by unplugging and replugging or using the reset function.</li>
<li>Retry the connection process.</li>
</ul>
</li>

<li><b>Switch to 2.4GHz Network</b>
<ul>
<li>Access your router settings and ensure the 2.4GHz band is enabled.</li>
<li>Temporarily disable the 5GHz band during setup, if needed.</li>
<li>Reconnect the IoT device using the 2.4GHz network only.</li>
</ul>
</li>

<li><b>Verify and Re-enter Wi-Fi Credentials</b>
<ul>
<li>Double-check SSID (network name) and password spelling.</li>
<li>Re-enter credentials through the companion app.</li>
</ul>
</li>

<li><b>Check App Version and Compatibility</b>
<ul>
<li>Open the app store and confirm you have the latest version of the IoT companion app.</li>
<li>Update the app if a newer version is available.</li>
<li>Re-initiate the setup using the updated app version.</li>
</ul>
</li>

</ol>
</remedy>

</troubleshooting>