<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE troubleshooting PUBLIC "-//Nena//DTD Troubleshooting Topic//EN" "../dtd/troubleshootingDomain.dtd">
<troubleshooting id="firmware_issues">

<title>Troubleshoot Firmware Update Failures</title>
<shortdesc>This topic addresses issues where a firmware update fails or renders the IoT device non-functional ("bricked"). It outlines common causes and provides recovery methods.</shortdesc>

<problem>
<title>Problem:</title>

<p>The device fails to complete a firmware update or becomes unresponsive after the update process.</p>
</problem>

<cause>
<title>Possible Causes:</title>

<ul>
<li><b>Interrupted Update:</b> The update process was disrupted due to power loss or network disconnection.</li>
<li><b>Version Mismatch:</b> An incorrect or incompatible firmware version was installed, causing system failure or erratic behavior.</li>
</ul>
</cause>

<remedy>
<title>Possible Solutions:</title>

<ol>

<li><b>Use Manual Recovery or Factory Reset</b>
<ul>
<li>Disconnect power and wait for 30 seconds.</li>
<li>Press and hold the reset or recovery button (refer to the device manual for exact steps).</li>
<li>Reconnect power and wait for the device to reinitialize.</li>
<li>If supported, connect via a USB tool or recovery app to flash the original firmware version.</li>
</ul>
</li>

<li><b>Avoid Updating on Low Battery</b>
<ul>
<li>Ensure the device is fully charged or plugged into a stable power source before initiating updates.</li>
<li>For battery-operated devices, maintain at least 50% battery to prevent shutdown during firmware installation.</li>
</ul>
</li>

<li><b>Contact Customer Support</b>
<ul>
<li>If recovery fails, contact the official support team for guided assistance or replacement.</li>
</ul>
</li>

</ol>
</remedy>

</troubleshooting>